Another trick is State Tying.
>> You mean combining training for
states with the states
within the model are closed?
>> Yup.
Let's look at our models for
I and we again.
In the case where we are recognizing
isolated signs, the initial movement
of the right hand going to the chest
is very similar in both models.
Instead of having an I state one and
a we state one, we're just going to have
an initial state and define the I and we
models such that they both include it.
That way when we training the HMM
we have twice as much data
to train the initial state.
>> And we can do the same thing with
a final state, since the hand going back
down to rest looks much the same in
the isolated models for I and we.
>> We have to be careful with this
trick, because State Tying gets more
complicated when we start to
worry about context training.
For our new table and we want CAT2,
the only states that should be tied
are the first state for I and we and
the last state for table and cat.
>> And maybe not even the last states
for table and CAT2, if we're using more
features than just delta Y, the end of
table and CAT2 could be very different.
>> Good point,
in practice I often just look for
states that seem to have close means and
variances during training and
then determine if tying them looks
logical given the motion I expect.
Again it's a situation where some
visualization of the data and
iteration can help us
improve our results.